contrib/docker/README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://dragonflydb.io">
    <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dragonflydb/dragonfly/main/.github/images/logo-full.svg"
      width="284" border="0" alt="Dragonfly">
  </a>
</p>



# Dragonfly DB with Docker Compose

This guide will have you up running DragonflyDB with `docker-compose` in just a few minutes.

| This guide assumes you have `docker` and `docker-compose` installed on your machine. If not, [Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and [Install Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) before continuing.

## Step 1

```bash
# Download Official Dragonfly DB Docker Compose File
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dragonflydb/dragonfly/main/contrib/docker/docker-compose.yml

# Launch the Dragonfly DB Instance
docker-compose up -d

# Confirm image is up
docker ps | grep dragonfly
# ac94b5ba30a0   docker.dragonflydb.io/dragonflydb/dragonfly   "entrypoint.sh drago…"   45 seconds ago   Up 31 seconds         0.0.0.0:6379->6379/tcp, :::6379->6379/tcp   docker_dragonfly_1

# Log follow the dragonfly container
docker logs -f docker_dragonfly_1
```

Dragonfly DB will answer to both `http` and `redis` requests out of the box!

You can use `redis-cli` to connect to `localhost:6379` or open a browser and visit `http://localhost:6379`

## Step 2

Connect with a redis client.

From a new terminal:

```bash
redis-cli
127.0.0.1:6379> set hello world
OK
127.0.0.1:6379> keys *
1) "hello"
127.0.0.1:6379> get hello
"world"
127.0.0.1:6379> 
```

## Step 3

Continue being great and build your app with the power of DragonflyDB!

### More Build Options
- [Docker Quick Start](/docs/quick-start/)
- [Kubernetes Deployment with Helm Chart](/contrib/charts/dragonfly/)
- [Build From Source](/docs/build-from-source.md)

Commit message:

docs(docker-compose): Explain `NAT` overhead in docker-compose overlay vs host networks
Signed-off-by: Ryan Russell <git@ryanrussell.org>

contrib/docker/README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://dragonflydb.io">
    <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dragonflydb/dragonfly/main/.github/images/logo-full.svg"
      width="284" border="0" alt="Dragonfly">
  </a>
</p>



# Dragonfly DB with Docker Compose

This guide will have you up running DragonflyDB with `docker-compose` in just a few minutes.

| This guide assumes you have `docker` and `docker-compose` installed on your machine. If not, [Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and [Install Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) before continuing.

## Step 1

```bash
# Download Official Dragonfly DB Docker Compose File
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dragonflydb/dragonfly/main/contrib/docker/docker-compose.yml

# Launch the Dragonfly DB Instance
docker-compose up -d

# Confirm image is up
docker ps | grep dragonfly
# ac94b5ba30a0   docker.dragonflydb.io/dragonflydb/dragonfly   "entrypoint.sh drago…"   45 seconds ago   Up 31 seconds         0.0.0.0:6379->6379/tcp, :::6379->6379/tcp   docker_dragonfly_1

# Log follow the dragonfly container
docker logs -f docker_dragonfly_1
```

Dragonfly DB will answer to both `http` and `redis` requests out of the box!

You can use `redis-cli` to connect to `localhost:6379` or open a browser and visit `http://localhost:6379`

## Step 2

Connect with a redis client.

From a new terminal:

```bash
redis-cli
127.0.0.1:6379> set hello world
OK
127.0.0.1:6379> keys *
1) "hello"
127.0.0.1:6379> get hello
"world"
127.0.0.1:6379> 
```

## Step 3

Continue being great and build your app with the power of DragonflyDB!  

## Tuning Dragonfly DB
If you are attempting to tune Dragonfly DB for performance, consider `NAT` performance costs associated with containerization.  
> ## Performance Tuning
> ---
> In `docker-compose`, there is a meaningful difference between an `overlay` network(which relies on docker `NAT` traversal on every request) and using the `host` network(see [`docker-compose.yml`](https://github.com/dragonflydb/dragonfly/blob/main/contrib/docker/docker-compose.yml)).  
> &nbsp;  
> Fore more information, see the [official docker-compose network_mode Docs](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v3/#network_mode)  
> &nbsp;  

### More Build Options
- [Docker Quick Start](/docs/quick-start/)
- [Kubernetes Deployment with Helm Chart](/contrib/charts/dragonfly/)
- [Build From Source](/docs/build-from-source.md)
